electron an asura blank canvas of a
manifesto could we now be about to find
out who the real Boris Johnson is right
well this is what you're afraid to read
you want to kick yourself on it but I
think Boris Johnson is it's a grim
situation I think in the rest of the UK
just know you know the the Boris Johnson
government I think is the worst possible
thing for the UK I represent Inverness
as part of my constituency and there we
found for the past six years we were a
pilot area Universal Credit being ruled
out it's absolutely hammered people
luckily we've gone from one food bank in
Inverness up to four and and that's been
a process and many more throughout the
constituency have joined that people
have been driven into poverty by that
particular policy and it has a terrible
consequences with it as well such as the
rape clause and the six-month rule for
terminally ill people which can be done
away with but they haven't done it as a
Tory party now what's gonna happen I
think with Boris Johnson and his
majority is that's going to get even
worse I think they're going to tighten
the screw on the people who are most
vulnerable in our communities they're
disabled I think they and the the single
parents those people who just can't
afford it you know I I think this is
going to be a really awful time with a
Tory majority in place and I think we
will see more off what we already know
about Boris Johnson which is a pretty
grim prospect is that I'm just wondering
whether drew and his colleagues in the
SNP are actually going to start taking
responsibility for life in Scotland but
they have been responsible for
we're responsible for the health service
there which is suffering now in Scotland
much more so than the questions asked
about Boris Johnson animated it's not
true Boris Johnson is is a phenomenon
he's different from other Prime
Minister's that's why he's made such a
very good leader the Conservative Party
and prime minister and done things
achieve things that people three months
ago said we're impossible we couldn't be
standing or sitting here now looking at
the prospect of getting on with brexit
and if he hadn't been able to do things
which people simply said weren't
possible they were in under yeah hang on
he picked up a deal that Teresa may
reject was always a possibility to screw
over the DUP but it was just not done
until he could gam europe has boo europe
has come back to the negotiating table
something that was said was impossible
to do now Boris and the Conservative
Party is at last in a really strong
negotiating and what's gonna happen like
a whiticus I mean if you think about for
example the EOG you've held so much
swing until now what's gonna happen
there I mean what kind of Conservative
Party are we gonna see we can see very
effective Conservative Party because it
much more United than it has been for a
very long time it was a painful time
asking transit in terms of that then the
MP he's not that great in number who
were very much to the right of the party
were pushing bricks and pushing a hard
brace at Jacob Riis Morrissey and others
what's gonna happen to that to those
kind of people now they know horse
doesn't dozen have to worry about them
he's gonna lead the party in a different
way what kind of party can we expect to
see it get a big a party that's dealing
with the future and the ambitions of the
future how do we get out of this system
this newly negotiated system that we're
going to do with you how do we get the
things that we really want we're not
going to simply sit there as we were
doing up until very recently saying to
the to Brussels what are you going to
allow us to do we're actually in a
position now to say this is what we are
going to do we want your cooperation we
are friends we are partners we are
colleagues but we are no longer going to
be doing the same things as you are
because we have a different horizon that
we want to get to there's nothing evil
with that it's just a different ambition
and the British
very good at achieving their ambitions
it's about unleashing the imagination
the innovation that we know that we have
and we weren't able to do that with the
system that we're just getting out of
and at the end of January we will now be
in a new position to do things which two
years ago we were told were absolutely
extraordinary and impossible we are
going to do them because I think rather
like the Tories 2015 slogan was a
long-term economic plan I challenge
anyone in this room to remember what the
long-term economic plan actually was and
I think we get brave it down there's a
big problem which is that in we have a
year it is written into the Tory
manifesto that we will be out by this
end of December next year that is that
would be the fastest trade deal that
anyone has ever done I mean if Boris
Johnson can accomplish it take my hat
off to him but I think he has made a big
promise that he has told people this
subjects going to go away and I think
when the subject doesn't go away people
are gonna feel quite cheated okay little
bit more so the woman at the back there
so my concern is that you said Michael
that we need a healthy opposition and I
completely agree but the concern that
those people who were originally maybe
labour supported that moved to
conservatives have an uncertainty that
the real Boris Johnson will not follow
through on the things he said prior to
elections so I feel that there's a real
concern around how the real Boris
Johnson will he follow through on the
promises he's made for instance with the
NHS and other aspects as well and
without a healthy opposition is there a
safeguard in place for that okay and the
woman in the gray jacket you wanted to
say something now she can I just say if
when you put your hands up if you keep
them up because if you put them down I I
lose you sir
bacon conservatives have been in power
for ten years
the housing crisis has got worse and
worse what's gonna happen now well the
question is about are we gonna find out
who the real Boris Johnson is it wasn't
it was a little high queue of a
manifesto that we saw for this election
it really to tell this it's a fully
it's a pretty slender document as you
know full well grown ships so what what
are we going to see what so mana party
kind of future yeah I think the reality
is that what you're gonna see ver Boris
Johnson is someone who's liberal
moderates One Nation compassionate who
puts the NHS right at the heart of it
and let's see now because we're the
majority I think you'll actually get to
see it as the questioner sort of
suggests the real Boris Johnson much
more like the lung so he's there well
I'm not small like the London Mayor who
actually by the way very liberal very
open and very keen to get on I know when
I started to mention before he was a
prime minister in the last Parliament
who didn't have a majority which is
unheard of that actually made it very
difficult to be Prime Minister I think
you'll find with a big majority with
eighty million with eight sorry eight
eighty MPs majority he will be in
position to majority and you'll see that
the the kind of one nation considered a
prime minister didn't be and I do have
to say particularly to use even the idea
as you've done twice here that you just
don't seem to understand that fourteen
million people have just gone out and
voted for him as Prime Minister
including as the questioner mentioned up
there a lot of first-time labour
supporters who voted conservative and
you're assuming it's just for for brexit
but the way that you're talking about
people and we accept the challenge what
we're saying is we understand you voted
because a bracelet but we are going to
really show you how good and how
effective a conservative government can
be in areas like Darlington and
Workington and all those other seats
that we want and if your attitude is you
were just wrong to vote conservative
you'll find in five years time when
we've actually delivered for people in
this country on NHS on health and all
the other areas but actually you'll have
a real wait name one thing and what can
we expect who's what Allison Boris
Johnson has promised well he promised
come on 31st of October and that didn't
happen
he's prompts that we were going to come
out of the EU completely December 2020
now that he doesn't have the likes of
Jacob Riis Moorgate others breathing
down his neck
is that a promise he's going to keep do
you think yeah absolutely I think that
we have a deal or not let's be clear we
didn't come out on the 31st of October
because as of mentioned there was no
majority in parliament now there is not
quite the 80 million like waited but now
there's an 80 majority in parliament it
does mean that we could fulfil coming
out on the 31st of January we'll get
that work started it is concerned with a
deal or not
is it amount absolutely because you know
what although you say it takes years to
negotiate trade deals how many trade
deals have ever been negotiated in the
world where you already have exact
parity on your products on everything
going into this ever been negotiated
where you're putting up barriers to
trade rather than lowering them this is
when we leave there are already 50
countries with which we have rollover
trade deals so with in terms of the rest
of the world so there's already a lot in
place and in terms of Europe they sell
more stuff to us than we sell to them so
why does would they not want to trade
deal and by the way exactly the same
argument there no one's saying they
wouldn't want to trade just whether you
can do it buddy why not you already got
the same playing field only into customs
yes yes a question to grant please you
say that Boris is going to be a moderate
one nation Tory yet how does that in my
opinion actions speak louder than words
he lost the majority because he actually
checked out of the party the very
moderate nation Tories like Dominic
grieve and David Gork and so how how do
you respond to that
briefly okay man when you stand as a for
any of the parties you stand for a
document like this which is a manifesto
and you say you're gonna do what's in it
one of the things that was in our last
manifesto is that everybody who signed
up said we would vote to leave the EU
those people didn't and knew that the
consequence of that would be to lose the
WIPP half of them got it back by the way
and that kind you have to have some sort
of discipline in a political party and
it's absolutely right to do and actually
I think the evidence of it is that we
now have an 80 majority because we've
got MPs now who've all signed up to the
manifesto and that means the public know
we're going to do what it says in the
madness in the manifesto lots of hands
up the woman with the glasses there yes
oh
basically you say that Boris Johnson is
a liberal a person for the people right
but when will you actually investigate
there's some phobia that is currently
occurring in your country in your don't
talk about but you talk about Jerry
Cohen and his anti-semitism in the labor
parties which is fairness right fairness
right but well we actually addressed
this I'm afraid we're that's how
occurring in the crossover today I'll
take a few points and then you know sit
there wondering the blue sweater here
with the with a necklace I have to take
issue with you on your comment that
Boris Johnson is a man of compassion I
have not seen any evidence of compassion
in his behavior towards a child on a
hospital floor when he stands for a
photoshoot in front of a bunch of police
cadets and one of them faints in the
heat and then he just carries on if
where is the compassion in this man
where is his compassion for the homeless
chap he was what he was film walking by
with his aides and with his team
I see no compassion in this man do you
think Boris Johnson had an easier run in
this campaign against not very effective
jeremy corbyn and against a more
competent labor leader who need to move
back towards the center right to appeal
to the voters that he borrowed from the
Labour Party in this election I think
labour lost the election because they
didn't respect democracy democracy means
when you vote and do have a referendum
whether you like it or not that's it we
voted to leave how dare you how do i
m'lady photo for me was the primary
reason that I walked into the polling
booth yesterday for the first time in my
life not knowing which way I was going
to vote absolutely abhorrent that we
didn't respect what people said
absolutely abhorrent secondly the real
Boris Johnson Boris Johnson he will
swing with the wind he'll do whatever
makes him popular he wanted to be Prime
Minister he wanted to be labour Mayor of
London whatever was gonna get him that
role he doesn't care he's not a man of
compassion he's not my conviction and
he's not a man of morals or ethics
I feel embarrassed to have him as the
point minister of this country obviously
the point made you about the referendum
clearly you wanted you a group of MPs
you got together to try and see if you
could get some kind of brexit deal
through the question originally from
Kiara is could we be about to find out
who the real Boris Johnson is well I
think all of these points are absolutely
valid when the mask slips this one
nation stuff just falls away he sacked
21 one nation MPs he couldn't look at a
photograph of a young boy on a hospital
trolley he uses racist rhetoric like
letter boxes and bank robbers he he
wrote two articles for the Daily
Telegraph before the referendum one
saying advocating remain one advocating
leave and the only thing he really
calculated what which was best for his
career so but but what Boris Johnson
isn't a one nation Tory he's a one Boris
Tory there are members in the audience
here who clearly voted for Boris Johnson
we've heard a lot of people saying why
they didn't support Jeremy Corbyn why
didn't support Boris Johnson others who
have supported brought Jeremy Corbyn no
one's actually spoken up for Boris
Johnson I know there must be something
so are you one of them I didn't vote for
Boris I know why I know why he well I I
sympathize with him in in the way that
he stood up for brexit that's the only
reason why I would say Boris Johnson he
stood up for Brooks is the only leader
who said okay what about so anybody who
actually voted for stones because they
actually wanted him yes you sir in the
front Jeremy Corbyn wasn't very good and
Boris Johnson wasn't perfect either but
by a thumpin majority the nation has
decided that out of the - Boris Johnson
was the best choice and we've got to
give him a chance it's his first day and
we'll see how it goes and we'll make a
decision in five years time okay grown
t1 or some of the points he's at least
worse see
to talk about he wrote two articles how
many times have you taken a piece of
paper when you have a difficult decision
and actually I think something like
whether or not we should vote to leave
Europe as a difficult decision do you
draw a line down the middle and you put
the pros and the cons and he does that
as a writer as somebody who writes
something if you take the time to read
both those articles then you actually
see his arguments from his perspective
for leaving were way stronger so to keep
trotting out he wrote two arteries and
therefore this is terrible and by the
way you know this o it's for his career
as if like you as a politician it's not
for your career politicians are coerced
and on things they believe in for their
careers and in many other ways many of
the other comics compassion if I take
that issue as an example I worked very
closely with him I having to be housing
minister at the time when he was mayor
and he is very very very passionate
about the issue of homelessness to the
point where he introduced the policy
which was a first called the no second
Night Out policy which meant that
anybody who's on the street
automatically be caught up by the
outreach teams have found accommodation
on the second night out hello this is a
much more complex issue than most people
realize for example in this country
people who are not British citizens they
don't have all smashing rights recourse
to public funds meaning that they don't
automatically get housed one of the
issues that ties into therefore is the
ability of people to come and live here
[Applause]
for a moment let's say that we do say
that everybody should have recourse to
public funds what will happen next
answer more people will come here
because it's an automatic way of being
able to get housed and so it's much more
complex policy is actually to simply say
that somebody has no compassion without
looking at the way that that person has
worked in fact in this case as London
Mayor to try to solve homelessness is
really not to look at the full tank well
I'm gonna move on from this precise
element in a moment before we do I just
lastly seen since we've got you here
where doesn't here we go now in terms of
we know Jeremy Corbyn is gonna stand
he said so other people some have called
for him to stand down immediately he's
not doing that
who would you support to take his place
yourself I really don't think we should
get into names right now because we've
got some big big should happen very soon
it should be done and dusted but it
should be done and dusted by stir we
need a new leader in place and I have no
plans to stand I think that there is a
very strong cake case for the next
leader of the Labour Party to be a woman
is there anyone that you would like to
stand I think we have some brilliant
candidates out there people like Lisa
Nandi just Phillips Kier stahma you'll
agree there are many many good people
out there but I think we need first of
all to be clear about the question that
has to be answered and that question is
about how do we reconnect with our
working-class Heartland those people
that deserted us at this election I
think one thing that the Prime Minister
was right about that I agree about was a
lot of those people lent their votes to
the Conservative Party this time we've
got them back and that requires credible
economic policy so we are trusted on the
economy again patriotism we love this
country the Labour Party took the United
Kingdom into NATO that's one of the
proudest achievements of this party
Ernest Bevin signed that document in
1948 we are the party of of defending
our country of standing up for our armed
forces and it's heartbreaking for me to
hear what the gentlemen there said I
think he's a veteran himself that he
couldn't support the party because he
doesn't think we believe in national
security and defence we need to be a
patriotic realistic but radical party
with the economic policies that
recognize that this Conservative
government has been destroying this
country and it's public services and
dividing the economy up so that the rich
get richer and the poor get poorer for
nine long years and a half is shocked
[Applause]
[Music]